Wealth of Nations
=================

Quotes
------

<quote><cite>Secondly, the advantage which is gained by saving the time commonly lost in passing from one sort of work to another, is much greater than we should at first view to be apt to imagine it. It is impossible to pass very quickly from one kind of work to another, that is carried on in a different place, and with quite different tools... A man commonly saunters a little in turning his hand from one sort of employment to another. When he first begins the new work he is seldom very keen and hearty; his mind, as they say, does not go to it, and for some time he rather trifles than applies to good purpose. The habit of sauntering and of indolent careless application, which is naturally, or rather necessarily, acquired by every country workman who is obliged to change his work and his tools every half hour, and to apply his hand in twenty different ways almost always slothful and alazy, and incapable of any vigorous application even on the most pressing occasions.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 13-14</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>It is naturally to be expected, therefore, that some one or other of those who are employed in each particular branch of labour should soon find out easier and readier methods of performing their own particular work, wherever the nature of it admits of such improvement.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 14</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>In civilized society he stands at all times in need of the co-operation and assistance of a great multitudes, while his whole life is scarce sufficient to gain the friendship of a few persons. In almost every other race of animals, each individual, when it is grown up to maturity, is entirely independent, and in its natural state has occasion for the assistance of no other living creature. But man has almost constant occasion for the help of his brethren, and it is in vain for him to expect it from their benevolence only. He will be more likely to prevail if he can interest their self-love in his favour, and show them that it is for their own advantage to do for him what he requires of them.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 21</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The difference between the most dissimilar characters, between a philosopher and a common street porter, for example, seems to arise not so much from nature, as from habit, custom, and education.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 24</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The word VALUE, it is to be observed, has two different meanings, and sometimes expresses the utility of some particular object, and sometimes the power of purchasing other goods which the possession of that object conveys. The one may be called “value in use;” the other, “value in exchange”. The things which have the greatest value in use have frequently little or no value in exchange; and on the contrary, those which have the greatest value in exchange have frequently little or no value in use. Nothing is more useful than water: but it will purchase scarce any thing; scarce any thing can be had in exchange for it. A diamond, on the contrary, has scarce any value in use; but a very great quantity of other goods may frequently be had in exchange for it.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 42</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The value of any commodity, therefore, to the person who possesses it, and who means not to use or consume it himself, but to exchange it for other commodities, is equal to the quantity of labour which it enables him to purchase or command. Labour, therefore, is the real measure of the exchangeable value of all commodities.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 44</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The real price of every thing, what every thing really costs to the man who wants to acquire it, is the toil and trouble of it. What every thing is really worth to the man who has acquired it, and who wants to dispose of it or exchange it for something else, is the toil and trouble which it can save to himself, and which it can impose upon other people.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 44</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>It is often difficult to ascertain the proportion between two different quantities of labour. The time spent in two different sorts of work will not always alone determine this proportion. The different degrees of hardship endured, and of ingenuity exercised, must likewise be taken into account.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 45</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>... a commodity which is itself continually varying in its own value can never be an accurate measure of the value of other commodities.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 48</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>Labour alone, therefore, never varying in its own value, is alone the ultimate and real standard by which the value of all commodities can at all times and places be estimated and compared. It is their real price; money is their nominal price only.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 49</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>Princes and sovereign states have frequently fancied that they had a temporary interest to diminish the quantity of pure metal contained in their coins; but they seldom have fancied that they had any to augment it. The quantity of metal contained in the coins, I believe of all nations, has, accordingly, been almost continually diminishing, and hardly ever augmenting.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 50</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>In England, gold was not considered as a legal tender for a long time after it was coined into money. The proportion between the values of gold and silver money was not fixed by any public law or proclamation; but was left to be settled by the market. If a debtor offered payment in gold, the creditor might either reject such payment altogether, or accept of it at such a valuation of the gold, as he and his debtor could agree upon.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 59</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>In process of time, and as people become gradually more familiar with the use of different metals in coin, and consequently better acquainted with the proportion between their respective values, it has in most countries, I believe, been found convenient to ascertain this proportion, and to declare by a public law that a guinea, for example, of such a weight and fineness, should exchange for one-and-twenty shillings, or be a legal tender for a debt of that amount.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 59</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>In this &lsqb;early and rude&rsqb; state of things, the whole produce of labour belongs to the labourer; and the quantity of labour commonly employed in acquiring or producing any commodity is the only circumstance which can regulate the quantity of labour which it ought commonly to purchase, command, or exchange for.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I pp. 71-72</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The value which the workmen add to the materials, therefore, resolves itself in this case into two parts, of which the one pays their wages, the other the profits of their employer upon the whole stock of materials and wages which he advanced.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 72</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>He could have no interest to employ them, unless he expected from the sale of their work something more than what was sufficent to replace his stock to him; and he could have no interest to employ a great stock rather than a small one, unless his profits were to bear some proportion to the extent of his stock.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 72</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The profits of stock, it may perhaps be thought, are only a different name for the wages of a particular sort of labour, the labour of inspection and direction.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 72</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>As soon as the land of any country has all become private property, the landlords, like all other men, love to reap where they never sowed, and demand a rent even for its natural produce.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 74</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>The real value of all the different component parts of price, it must be observed, is measured by the quantity of labour which they can, each of them, purchase or command. Labour measures the value not only of that part of price which resolves itself into labour, but of that which resolves itself into rent, and of that which resolves itself into profit.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 75</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>...profits must always bear some proportion to the capital.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 77</author></span></quote>

<quote><cite>Wages, profit, and rent, are the three original sources of all revenue as well as of all exchangeable value. All other revenue is ultimately derived from some one or other of these. Whoever derives his reveune from a fund which is his own, must draw it either from his labour, from his stock, or from his land. The revenue derived from labour is called wages. That derived from stock, by the person who manages or employs it, is called profit. That derived from it by the person who does not employ himself, but lends it to another, is called the interest or the use of money.</cite><span>— <author>Wealth of Nations Vol I p. 78</author></span></quote>
